Joni Mitchell
Philadelphia Folk Festival
August 23, 1968
(Soundboard)

1) Song About The Midway
2) Cactus Tree
3) Chelsea Morning
4) Clouds/Both Sides Now
5) Circle Game/Little Green

------------

"Outside Schwenksville"

Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, August 24, 1968
by Walter Naedele 

        
Joni Mitchell Breaks Up Opening of Festival 

In an open field outside Schwenksville last night, a girl with 
blonde hair long as uncut wheat brought several thousand listeners 
to their feet, cheering for a voice echoing words that haunted. 

Joni Mitchell had stopped the opening night of the seventh annual 
Philadelphia Folk Festival dead in its tracks. 


Only her plea that she was not permitted any encores beyond her 
20 minutes of five songs silenced the shouting that proclaimed 
this girl a sensation. 


It was her first appearance here since her only album appeared 
earlier this year. 


Joni Mitchell - a 24 year old Canadian, with only one album, and 
a reputation that has blossomed her into the most exciting girl 
singer since Judy Collins, since Joan Baez. 


For Joni is a writer and an influence. 


Like Tim Hardin, her songs have been heard through other singers: 
Judy Collins singing "Michael from Mountains"; some group making 
popular "Both Sides, Now." 


Joni Mitchell is also a phenomenon. 


Like the crashing surf, you have to feel her voice hitting you 
hard to gain the exhilaration of something yet unexperienced. 


The awful thing about Joni has been that she seemed to have two 
voices, a deep, open-throated tenor and thin soaring soprano. 
She could not sustain a song without breaking across into what 
seemed a weakness. 


But last night, she was stronger than in her album, each of her 
voices a richness, singing "Being Free," "Chelsea Morning," 
"Both Sides, Now" and a medley of "The Circle Game" and "Little Green." 


The crowd sang "Circle Game" with her, a song she's never recorded. 


Her awareness awakened by the bitterness of the cities in these, 
her voice carried the awe of a country girl affronted, the humility 
of a girl warning against what she had lived through. 


Joni herself, was in bad shape, suffering from the effects 
of hepatitis. 
