Elvis Costello
AskJeeves.com Party
Ruby Syke
San Francisco, CA
27 April 2000

Elvis Costello, Nick Lowe, Jim Keltner, and Austin Delone perform at an
Ask Jeeves corporate party.

01 Accidents Will Happen
02 (The Angels Wanna Wear My) Red Shoes
03 Everyday I Write the Book
04 Veronica
05 Radio Sweetheart / Jackie Wilson Said
06 Deep Dark Truthful Mirror
07 Pouring Water on a Drowning Man
08 Honey Are You Straight or Are You Blind?
09 Mystery Dance
10 It Tears Me Up
11 Tonight the Bottle Let Me Down
12 My Baby's Gone
13 Alison
14 Leave My Kitten Alone
15 I Can't Stand Up For Falling Down
16 Pump it Up
17 God's Comic
18 Happy Birthday to Jim Keltner
19 (What's So Funny 'Bout) Peace, Love, and Understanding?

artwork site #1: http://tinyurl.com/agtv
artwork site #2: http://groups.yahoo.com/group/Highfidelityelvis/files/


NOTE: This is not my "rip." It was downloaded from alt.binaries.sounds.shn in April 2003. It was posted by "manoutoftime." I decoded the SHN files, but forgot that mkw Audio Compression Tool would automatically delete the SHN files when decoded to WAV. So I encoded them to SHN yet again, deleted the old MD5 file, and added the show to my archives. I also changed all the file names, since they were generic names like "(01) Unknown Artist - Track01.wav."

The only information included with the post was the date. I created this NFO file, filling in all the track names, and reprinting the "review" I found online at http://www.elviscostello.info. Thanks to Blind Morton Henkin for posting the tracklist.

- zr

--------------------------------------------------------------------------


Elvis loves the SF nightlife 
San Francisco Gate, May 3, 2000

AskJeeves.com, the Emeryville-based search site starring the civilized butler guy, is now so downright huge they nabbed Elvis Costello to play their monster corporate party last Thursday. Then the British King of America hightailed it to the Fillmore to check out the Boom Boom Room. Apparently, sassy jump-blues singer Brenda Boykin and her band Home Cookin' were going at it when Ms. Boykin alerted the crowd of his arrival. Costello, who had played the AskJeeves gig with Home Cookin' organist Austin Delone, took the stage with Nick Lowe on bass and Jim Keltner on drums and proceeded to play an hour-long set, even including old-standbys like "Alison" and "Pump It Up."
