Jane's Addiction
Nov 25, 1988
Cabaret Metro
Chicago, IL
"Trip Away" boot

Aud/SBD 

01) Kettle Whistle 
02) Obvious 
03) Romeo - Whores 
04) Idiots Rule 
05) Bobhaus - Bobhaus + Pigs in Zen 
06) Ted, Just Admit It... 
07) Standing in the Shower... Thinking 
08) Had a Dad 
09) I Would For You 
10) Ocean Size 
11) Trip Away 
12) Mountain Song 
13) Chip Away 
14) Had a Dad - demo 
15) Pigs in Zen - demo 


see this link for more info ->

http://www.one-percent.com/bootography/janes_addiction/trip_away.shtml


Reviews:

Devin Klein

"Trip Away" is from 11/25/88. It is, in my humble opinion, the best Jane's Addiction 
live performance ever recorded. It starts off with a beautiful version of Kettle Whistle, 
followed be a very intense version of Obvious. There is tons of talking between songs, and 
the recording is just excellent quality. The entire bootleg album totally impresses me, and 
should be available to a lot more people. This show was opened by the Smashing Pumpkins, but 
I don't think I've ever seen a copy of their performance at this concert anywhere, but I'm 
sure it would be kind of amusing. 

Gavin Murphy

I read the first review and I thought I would add some historical perspective on this show as 
I was there and I also know how it was taped. This show was considered by the band themselves 
as one of the best ever Janes shows. The show cost only 6 bucks and I got tickets at the door 
night of show. I was tipped to check out Janes by a friend from Chicago who saw them open for 
Love and Rockets in Alabama 1987. He raved about them and I went on his urging....what a show...
easily in the top three I have ever seen. The source of this recording (the same source that 
was used for Trip away) was from Adam a semi-legendary Chicago taper who had contacts inside 
the Metro that let him talk to the bands and get permission to tape the shows. At the time it 
was pre-DAT and Adam used the top of the line analog portable recorder a Sony D5. He used a 
rugged mic stand that he usually put up in the balcony with two stereo Nakamichi microphones. 
His set up was so good this tape has often been sold as a soundboard source- trust me it is not...
just a very high quality audience recording. The tape actually surfaced on sale ( on cassette with 
a green or yellow xeroxed cover) in Milwaukee at Atomic Records two months after the show under the 
title "Shock Chicago" with the first two songs under the wrong titles of "Beautiful' and "You don't 
Know Me" ...that tape also included part of the Milwaukee show from an inferior audience source as filler. 
For almost 9 months that was the only Janes boot to be found in the Midwest but I later met a guy named 
Randy in SoCal through a Goldmine ad and the rest I guess is history. For you technical perfectionists I 
hold a 1st generation copy of the 11/25/88 show struck from Adam's master and it is a bit clearer and has 
about one minute more of audience chatter to start the tape that is omitted from the CD boot.

Notes:

there were bad cuts/dropouts at the track transitions of t6->t7, t8->t9, t10->t11.
i got rid of the dropouts and retracked the whole disc using cooleditpro, 
but the crowd noise still distinctly changes at those spots.
i suspect some between-song-banter has been removed at those places 
to fit this on a 74 minute disc, a lot of banter still exists tho' and this is 
a great, high-sound-qual show, you'll like it. -davepeterson

