Pink Floyd
Madison Square Garden
New York City, New York
October 7, 1987

The Lost New York Tapes
Free Range Pigs (FRP CDR-010/011)
-In association with Get It On Productions (GIO)

Disc One:
1. Shine On You Crazy Diamond (Parts I-V)
2. Signs Of Life
3. Learning To Fly
4. Yet Another Movie/Round and Round
5. A New Machine Part 1
6. Terminal Frost
7. A New Machine Part 2
8. Sorrow
9. The Dogs Of War
10. On The Turning Away
11. One Of These Days

Disc Two:
1. Time
2. On The Run
3. Wish You Were Here
4. Welcome To The Machine
5. Us and Them
6. Money
7. Another Brick In The Wall (Part 2)
8. Comfortably Numb
9. One Slip
10. Run Like Hell


Release Notes: 
An interesting set of circumstances led up to the release of this recording.  To my knowledge,  no other audio sources of this show have surfaced before today, however, according to some trading lists we've seen, there are two(!) audience-shot video tapes of this show.

Many thanks are owed to David Dyte (Get It On Productions) who made this tape available to Free Range Pigs for remastering and release.  David's story follows:

"I was visting a friend who is more or less of an ex-Floyd fan.  He still likes the music, but much prefers the indie stuff nowadays.  But in years gone by, it turns out he was quite a taper.  He handed me a drawer full of assorted tapes to look through, mostly traded for, but a few of his own making.  Lo and behold, here's a tape of Pink Floyd at Madison Square Garden in 1987."

"He said, 'Did I do that?  Wow!  I forgot all about this.  I'll look for the master tape.  It should be in another drawer with the rest.'  Well, he could not locate the box full of masters from his arena gig taping days, but this tape was made from the master immediately - the first and only time the master was played."

This recording was taped with a walkman recorder with a small stereo "bug-eye" type microphone, brand long since forgotten. The taper was sitting second tier, about half way back from the stage.

This release of this recording is very nice. The bass floor is sweet, with great acoustics in the hall. It's been in production for over 3 months and alot of effort has gone into making this release a worthy representation of what must have been an incredible night at MSG almost 14 years ago.

Credits: 
Jim Canale (bigpig@freerangepigs.com) and Free Range Pigs (www.freerangepigs.com) would like to thank the following people for their contributions to this effort:

David Dyte for graciously providing the source.
The Taper, whoever he is and where ever he may be.
Mark Gunzinger for providing Quality Assurance services.
Doug Collins for providing Quality Assurance services.
Kevin Jowers for providng Artwork services.

Without these guys, none of this would have been possible.