Artist:         Spiritualized®

Recorded Live:  June 11th 2003 at The Paradise, Boston, MA

Gear Used:      AKG CK77s/PS-2/AT Transformers/Line in M1 DAT @ 48kHz/Oade 7pin
                Audiophile 2496 (bit perfect)/SF/T-RackS/CoolEdit 48kHz->44kHz
                resample quality 999/CD Wave/SHN

Notes:          Critically spaced (180°) baffled omni audience recording.
                1 foot to the right of DFC, at least I was polite.
                4 feet from the stage.

                I'm borrowing a detailed review found on:
                http://www.spiritualized.com/nf_messageboard.html

                setlist was same as nyc gig:

                Pure phase drone, low lights
                This Little Life of Mine - jason claps the crowd as he walks to
                the right of the stage and sits on his stool. he chops out the
                beginnings of this little life and when it kicks, it's slow and
                heavy and a monster! the drummer looking extraordinarily
                restrained for emitting such a bonecrushing beat; the whole
                band were stationary, letting the massed guitars do the
                talking. the drop-down change into the 'baby it's mine' section
                was massive, a huge bottom - the lurching bass, i thought i'd
                shit me pants

                Come Together - the trademark drums smashed it open and the
                crowd reacted to a song they knew well. again, massive yet
                restrained sound, perhaps not as heavy as i've seen it before
                but i liked it better overall since it didn't outro with the
                sped up ending, more collapsed upon itself, a great climax

                Walking With Jesus - ahh, those twinkling chords in the
                beginning! jason's vocals really shone here with the 'wellllll
                here it comes etc' and the band kept it up, dizzy. the crowd
                knew this one as well which was really cool

                Hold On - the amount of fuzz for the opening drowned the
                changes out just a tiny bit but who fucking cares, when jason
                started singing it was heaven. some assholes in the crowd were
                making cat/other bleepy noises behind me during the quieter
                parts. the simplest things are often the most beautiful and
                this rendition built and was swoon-inducing. if you let it,
                it took you, how could anyone not be moved. the band took a
                pretty literal interpretion of the recorded version and didn't
                go over the top with a blast-off ending (although it was
                stratospheric of course!). a little mic feedback here, but
                jason ignored it and carried on

                She Kissed Me - ripping! the opening fill was dead on, the
                whole thing was taut, and the changes were decipherable even
                though they were saturated in distortion. i think the crowd
                were starting to look at each other here a bit instead of at
                the band

                Lord Let it Rain - not as majestic as i expected it and the
                first song of the lot that i could say needs more time in the
                'live oven' but the bones the laid for it were apt, again a
                very literal interpretation from the leaked stuff.

                Cheapster - jason's head was smashing along with those big
                cymbal bursts here, attacking his guitar with fury at times; he
                seemed to pay attention to the drummer more during this song
                than any other. rocked the fuck out although a pity that the
                crowd was sort've.. out of it a bit

                All of my Tears - i think this had a really extended intro,
                minutes in length, jason finger picking with his eyes closed..
                gentle, great to hear, and the crowd responded to the first
                segment with cheers as they apparently recognized it. overall
                good, but not as transcendent as it could've been

                Electric Mainline - another huge intro with pure phasing and one
                of the two other guitarists playing that mouth keyboard thingy,
                constantly built with jason chiming in on harmonica.. but
                they've changed it, it doesn't explode into the droning
                juggernaut of other shows, the drummer uses a lot of toms and
                it seems more experimental.. this version not the finished
                article i would say (which is a good thing because it was still
                awesome)

                Never Going Back - up to this point, my favorite, absolutely
                blinding. everything it's meant to be, enough said

                Take Your Time - only to be supplanted by an absolutely
                ridiculous take of take your time. the intensity, irresistable,
                their anthem. jason's vocals, as someone posted of the nyc gig,
                were magnificent, he channelled it all in there, gave every
                ounce into the 'take - good - care - of it babe' lines toward
                the end. the crowd loved it. what momentum

                Smiles/thing'll never be the same - holee shit what a finale,
                smiles was greeted again with familiarized cheers and something
                was up when jason started a fuzzed-out two chord progression
                which led to 'things'll never be the same'. his vocals growled,
                it sounded EXACTLY like the rawness of the prescription version
                it melted into a 5 minute squall of distortion and random
                madness and the band left the stage to the beating of
                feedbacking guitars.

                unreal! it was mad! the crowd, as usual for a boston gig, were
                not into it at all, i saw more head-bobbing for the secret
                machines (nyc) who opened. but they gave the band a rapturous
                applause at the end, jason left again clapping the crowd


Length:         83:39 Minutes

Tracks:

                1 Pure Phase
                2 Come Together
                3 Walking With Jesus
                4 Hold On
                5 She Kissed Me
                6 Lord Let it Rain
                7 Cheapster
                8 All of my Tears
                9 Electric Mainline
               10 Never Going Back
               11 Take Your Time
               12 Smiles
               13 Things'll never be the same



a rico boot®